Our project, the Interesting Catan Database Project (or ICDP for short), seeks to
revolutionize the online gamer scene for Settlers of Catan. Previously only available as a
physical board game, Settlers of Catan now claims a large playerbase and several websites
catering to enthusiasts. All of these websites, however, are deficient in their ability to save and
recall previously played Catan games from a database. We seek to improve upon existing
online implementations of Catan by including this database functionality in our project.
All three of us are Catan fanatics in our free time, and we consider any union between
our favorite game and favorite CS class to be an alluring concept. Furthermore, we expect to
gain much insight and real-world experience from our time spent on this important project. None
of us have developed any publicly-available, database-backed applications before, so the ICDP
will be a perfect opportunity for us to dabble with new frameworks. Although we have not yet
decided on the specific technologies that we intend to use, we anticipate that the ICDP will allow
us to learn frameworks not otherwise applicable to our databases class. We consider this
opportunity to be the ICDP’s greatest benefit to us.
At this early stage in our project, we cannot be entirely sure of the challenges ahead. We
have, nonetheless, devised a list of unanswered development questions:


1.) How will we store the board?
a.) Catan boards are composed of interlocking hexagonal pieces, randomized
before the start of each game, each representing one of four resources.
2.) How will we store the sequence of actions that a player took on their turn?
a.) On their turns, players must roll the dice, collect resources, discard half of their
resources if a seven was rolled and they had more than seven cards in their
hand, move the robber if a seven was rolled, and win if they have 10 victory
points.
b.) On their turns, players may trade resources, build structures, utilize a dock under
their control, deploy development cards, and claim a four-for-one trade of one
resource for another.
3.) How will we create a GUI?
4.) How will we enumerate build locations in such a way as to determine which tiles they sit
next to?


To assist us in our quest to make the perfect Catan playing environment, we have constructed a
rubric:


[20 pts] All relations are in BCNF or 3NF. We have a readable schema demonstrating the inner
workings of our system.
[20 pts] The ICDP has a usable graphical interface.
[15 pts] The underlying database schema can support many concurrent users and store
thousands of games
[20 pts] Users can register or play as guests. If they register, they will provide their email and
password. This information is stored securely and checked correctly on log-in.
[15 pts] Xi Chen Fan Club gave a coherent presentation. They explained how their project
worked, why it was needed, and the underlying frameworks that they used.
[10 pts] Xi Chen Fan Club worked well together and nobody’s feelings got hurt